We were always just called
the Bible Students,
and Brother Russell kind of encouraged that.
He said we didn’t want to be known
by any distinctive name
but just Bible Students,
and I appreciated his viewpoint on that.
But the trouble was that people
began to call us Russellites and Rutherfordites,
and not only that but the term “Christian” itself
became a misnomer.
Many people said they were Christians,
and they didn’t have any idea
as to what being a Christian meant.
Their identity would be considered
at a seven-day convention
held in Columbus, Ohio, in 1931.
Attendees received programs
with the puzzling letters “JW” on the cover.
Speaking on Isaiah 43:10,
J.F. Rutherford presented a resolution.
We have great love
for Brother Charles T. Russell,
and we gladly acknowledge
that the Lord used him
and greatly blessed his work,
yet we cannot consent
to be called by the name “Russellites.”
The Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society
and the International Bible Students Association
are merely names of corporations.
We are servants of Jehovah God
commissioned
to do a work in his name.
Henceforth,
may it be known that we
are Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Early editions of Zion’s Watch Tower
reveal that the Bible Students
had already known God’s name.
But now,
their new designation
would remind these Christians
that knowledge
brings responsibility to bear witness.
It just identified us.
But it was far more than a label though.
You represent the Most High God, Jehovah.
So you have to get out
in this preaching work,
and you also have to have conduct
that supports the fact
that you do worship this true God.
So at that particular time,
we went from being a vague group of persons
who were joined together
by a common interest
in studying the Scriptures to being
a Scriptural identity
that we could stand up and be proud of.